the Norwegian Refugee council is warning
that any attempt by Israel to
permanently displace Palestinians within
or from Gaza would amount to a breach of
international law the Israeli Army's
expanding ground offensive is forcing
hundreds of thousands of Palestinians
even further south and worsening an
already dire humanitarian situation
according to the UN 1.9 million
Palestinians more than 80% of the
population have been forced from their
homes by Israeli attacks or evacuation
orders it says Israel's indiscriminate
bombardment has damaged more than a
quarter of a million housing units and
completely destroyed a further
55,000 making them uninhabitable It also
says more than 1 million Palestinians
have no safe or secure home to return to
Aid workers are battling to reach those
in need because of ongoing Israeli
attacks they say the only way to deliver
humanitarian Aid is a sustainable
ceasefire Ahmed is Middle East adviser
for the Norwegian Refugee Council he
joins us live now from Aman thanks very
much uh for being with us so talk to us
first of all about some of the
challenges that your team have faced
there in particular and as we mentioned
how how difficult it is for the the
groups that are that are working there
to deliver any Aid when there is a
conflict going
on um yes of course uh 50 of my
colleagues have been pushed all the way
down to down south to Rafa which is now
one of the most populated uh most
densely populated areas in Gaza we're
talking about 12,000 people per square
kilometer it's almost impossible to
operate and satisfy the the you know the
immense needs to meet the immense needs
of of the populations there my team uh
tells us uh our team tells us that um
there are people who have to go days
without a meal they themselves are teams
have been displaced repeatedly at times
with their extended families they have
to build tents and stay in tents that
can hardly shelter people from the
worsening weather conditions the
increasingly uh desperate situation of
course all of this with almost Complete
Siege um no food no enough food that is
allowed in no enough clean uh drinking
water and of course their displacement
that continues to increase with Israel
creeping closer Israeli tanks creeping
closer to the
South and um as as you know the the UN
Security Council passed this resolution
last week calling for uh more uh
humanitarian Aid to be uh brought into
uh the Gaza Strip but but no ceasefire
have you noticed any increase at all in
in humanitarian uh shipment since that
time has has that made a difference at
all it is very hard to tell I mean um
what we have been saying here is that
the amount uh we shouldn't be you know
um preoccupied with counting numbers of
of ships and shipments and a trucks what
we need to see is difference on the
ground and so far that has not been
achieved there are people that are still
hungry actually starving we're on the
verge of famine for half a million
people at the same time you know
desperation means that people not enough
are not getting enough um you know AIDS
um and that includes water as well the
situation on the ground is desperate in
the sense that people who are being
pushed to the South have nowhere to go
have nowhere to stay so while this has
been a a step in the right direction we
need a giant stride here and we need
countries to come together to agree to a
ceasefire a lasting ceasefire what is
happening on the opposite is more
pushing of people uh towards the South
and hence our um warnings that you know
it is alarming how Palestinians are
being pushed and and are being uh asked
to uh leave their homes constantly and
repeatedly and that is a violation of uh
of international
law and just briefly you mentioned in
the release that's been provided to us
about the fear of of uh people in
Palestinians being pushed into EG Egypt
how how real is that possibility right
now uh I mean um when you think of the
the plans that have been endorsed by the
ministry of intelligence in Israel by
when you think of when you hear the
rhetoric by the Prime Minister and his
senior ministers and officials we have
every reason to worry uh it is already
happening that people are being pushed
without any Prospect of going going back
home uh and now we fear that they will
be pushed over the
Border as you know as it seems that
there are you know the Israelis are
thinking of that concretely they are
already discussing that plan and we have
made it clear that this would constitute
an atrocity crime which means that it
could be either a war crime or a crime
against humanity and this is why it is
contingent on World's powers to stop
that from happening to stop that um
nightmare scenario from happening what
we need is exactly the opposite for
people to be able to go back home safely
and to be with their families and not to
be pushed over the Border against their
will appreciate your time Ahmed Bam from
the Norwegian Refugee Council